Support for publishing modules from a single repo beta (#629)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/terraform-docs-common/docs/cloud-docs/registry/publish-modules.mdx

### VCS

- You must configure a VC provider connection. Refer to [Connect to VCS Providers](/terraform/cloud-docs/vc) for more information. 
- The source directory settings in your VCS must specify the path to the module configuration files.

### Repository

The registry automatically detects module names and versions. Your module repository meets all of the following requirements before adding it to the registry.

- The repository must be in one of your configured [VCS providers][vcs]. 
- The HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise user account must have admin access to the repository. The registry needs admin access to create the webhooks to import new module versions. 
- GitLab repositories must be in the main organization or group and not in any subgroups.
- Subfolders that contain module source code must adhere to the [standard module structure](/terraform/language/modules/develop/structure) so that the registry can inspect your module, generate documentation, and track resource usage.

### Release tag prefixes

> Specify a prefix to filter repository Git tags when using the [tag-based publishing type](#tag-based-publishing-considerations) in a repository that contains code for multiple modules. Without a prefix, HCP Terraform publishes new versions of modules tagged with a valid semantic version.

Author: ```suggestion
Specify a prefix to filter repository Git tags when using the [tag-based publishing type](#tag-based-publishing-considerations) in a repository that contains code for multiple modules. Without a prefix, HCP Terraform and Terraform Enterprise publish new versions for all modules with valid Git tags that use semantic versioning.
```

[vcs]: /terraform/cloud-docs/vcs

# Publish private modules to the private registry

This topic describes how to publish private modules to an organization's private registry. For instructions on adding modules from the public registry, refer to [Add modules from the Terraform registry](/terraform/cloud-docs/registry/add).

> **Hands-on:** Try the [Share Modules in the Private Module Registry](/terraform/tutorials/modules/module-private-registry-share) tutorial.

## Introduction

> When publishing modules to the private registry, the registry downloads the module source code. It uses API tokens to control access so consumers do not need access to the module's source repository, even when running Terraform from the command line. Additionally, the private registry uses your [version control system (VCS) integrations][vcs] and delegates management tasks, such as handling new version releases, to your VCS provider. The only manual tasks are adding a new module and deleting module versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When publishing modules to the private registry, the registry downloads the module source code. It uses API tokens to control access so consumers do not need access to the module's source repository, even when running Terraform from the command line. Additionally, the private registry uses your [version control system (VCS) integrations](#vcs) and delegates management tasks, such as handling new version releases, to your VCS provider. The only manual tasks are adding a new module and deleting module versions.
```

As written, this links to /terraform/cloud-docs/vcs - did you mean the `### VCS` section in this doc?

### Access to private modules

> Private modules are only available to members of the organization where you add them. In Terraform Enterprise, they are also available to organizations that you configure to [share modules](/terraform/enterprise/admin/application/registry-sharing) with that organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Private modules are only available to members of the organization you publish them to. In Terraform Enterprise, they are also available to organizations that you configure to [share modules](/terraform/enterprise/admin/application/registry-sharing) with that organization.
```

Since we describe this action as "publish" above.

### Publishing types

You can publish modules according to VCS tags or branches. Refer to [Tag-based publishing considerations](#tag-based-publishing-considerations) and [Branch-based publishing considerations](#branch-based-publishing-considerations) for more information.

## Requirements

Verify that you have met the following requirements before completing these instructions.

[permissions-citation]: #intentionally-unused---keep-for-maintainers

### Permissions

> You must be a member of the [owners team](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/permissions#organization-owners) and teams with [**Manage private registry** permissions](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/permissions#manage-private-registry) enabled to publish and delete modules from the private registry.

Reviewer: Just checking - this is intended to be an *and*, not *or*?

### VCS

> - You must configure a VCS provider connection. Refer to [Connect to VCS Providers](/terraform/cloud-docs/vc) for more information. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You must configure a VCS provider connection. Refer to [Connect to VCS Providers](/terraform/cloud-docs/vcs) for more information. 
```

- The source directory settings in your VCS must specify the path to the module configuration files.

### Repository

> The registry automatically detects module names and versions. Your module repository meets all of the following requirements before adding it to the registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The registry automatically detects module names and versions. Your module repository must meet all of the following requirements before you add it to the registry.
```

> The registry automatically detects module names and versions. Your module repository meets all of the following requirements before adding it to the registry.

Author: ```suggestion
The registry automatically detects module names and versions in the repository. Your module repository must meet all of the following requirements before adding it to the registry.
```

- The repository must be in one of your configured [VCS providers][vcs]. 
- The HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise user account must have admin access to the repository. The registry needs admin access to create the webhooks to import new module versions. 
- GitLab repositories must be in the main organization or group and not in any subgroups.
- Subfolders that contain module source code must adhere to the [standard module structure](/terraform/language/modules/develop/structure) so that the registry can inspect your module, generate documentation, and track resource usage.

### Release tag prefixes

> Specify a prefix to filter repository Git tags when using the [tag-based publishing type](#tag-based-publishing-considerations) in a repository that contains code for multiple modules. Without a prefix, HCP Terraform and Terraform Enterprise publish new versions for all modules with valid Git tags that use semantic versioning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you use the tag-based publishing type](#tag-based-publishing-considerations) with repositories that contain multiple modules, specify a prefix to filter repository tags. Without a prefix, HCP Terraform and Terraform Enterprise publish new versions for all modules with valid tags that use semantic versioning.
```

Maybe link to semantic versioning?

For example, specifying `app` as a tag prefix for the registry module instructs HCP Terraform to select only Git tags with the prefix `app` in them. As a result, HCP Terrraform selects the module tagged with `appv1.0.0` and publishes `v1.0.0` to the registry. 

> Refer to [Enable publishing from a single repository](#enable-publishing-from-a-single-repository)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to [Enable publishing from a single repository](#enable-publishing-from-a-single-repository) to learn more about publishing multiple modules from a single VCS repository.
```

?

### Module 

> By default, HCP Terraform and Terraform Enterprise require a separate repository for each module. As a result, each module must use the following three-part naming convention:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, HCP Terraform and Terraform Enterprise require a separate repository for each module. As a result, each module's VCS repository must use the following three-part naming convention:
```

I think?

`terraform-<PROVIDER>-<NAME>`

> The `<NAME>` segment reflects the type of infrastructure the module manages and `<PROVIDER>` is the main provider where it creates the infrastructure. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `<NAME>` segment reflects the type of infrastructure the module manages and `<PROVIDER>` is the main provider it uses to manage infrastructure. 
```

The `<PROVIDER>` segment must be all lowercase. The `<NAME>` segment can contain additional hyphens. 

Examples: 

- `terraform-google-vault`
- `terraform-aws-ec2-instance`

> When the **Publish modules to your private registry from a single repository** option is enabled,you can store multiple modules in a single repository. As a result, modules do not need to follow the naming convention. Refer to the following topics for more information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the **Publish modules to your private registry from a single repository** option is enabled, you can store multiple modules in a single repository. As a result, these repositories do not need to follow the naming convention. Refer to the following topics for more information:
```

I think we're referring to the naming of the VCS repository, not the module itself?

- [Multiple modules in a single repository](#multiple-modules-in-a-single-repository) 

## Enable publishing from a single repository

@include 'beta.mdx'

By default, HCP Terraform and Terraform Enterprise retrieve new versions of modules published to the private registry according to the repository release tag. As a result, you must store the code for each module in separate repositories. Otherwise, the registry retrieves and publishes new versions of all modules in a repository each time you create a new release tag. 

If you want to use a single repository to store modules source code, you can enable the **Publish modules to your private registry from a single repository** option in your workspace's general settings. When this option is enabled, you can add a prefix to the version tag that the registry uses to select module sources to publish when new you create new release tags. Refer to [Release tag prefixes](#release-tag-prefixes) for additional information.

After enabling this option, complete the instructions for [publishing a new module](#publish-a-new-module).

## Publish a new module

> You can publish modules using either the UI or API. Refer to [Publish a Private Module from a VCS](/terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs/private-registry/modules#publish-a-private-module-from-a-vcs) for instructions on using API. Note that you can also call the API to publish modules without a VCS repository as the source, which is not possible in the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can publish modules using either the UI or API. Refer to [Publish a Private Module from a VCS](/terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs/private-registry/modules#publish-a-private-module-from-a-vcs) for instructions on publishing a module with the API. Note that you can also call the API to publish modules without a VCS repository as the source, which is not possible in the UI.
```

> The interface for publishing modules and the registry behavior depends on how the **Publish modules to your private registry from a single repository** option. Refer to [Enable publishing from a single repository](#enable-publishing-from-a-single-repository) for more information about this setting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The interface for publishing modules and the registry behavior depends on how the **Publish modules to your private registry from a single repository** option is configured. Refer to [Enable publishing from a single repository](#enable-publishing-from-a-single-repository) for more information about this setting.
```

### One module per repository

> The **Publish modules to your private registry from a single repository** option is disabled by default, which requires requires each module to be stored in its own repository. Complete the following steps when this option is disabled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Publish modules to your private registry from a single repository** option is disabled by default, which requires requires each module to be stored in its own repository. Complete the following steps to publish a module when this option is disabled:
```

1. Sign in to [HCP Terraform](https://app.terraform.io/) or Terraform Enterprise and navigate to the organization where you want to publish a module.
1. Select **Registry** from the sidebar. 

> 1. Choose  **Module** from the  **Publish** and drop-down menu. The **Add Module** page appears with a list of available repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Choose **Module** from the **Publish** and drop-down menu. The **Add Module** page appears with a list of available repositories.
```

1. Enable either the **Tag** or **Branch** module publishing type. Refer to [Tag-based publishing considerations](#tag-based-publishing-considerations) and [Branch-based publishing considerations](#branch-based-publishing-considerations) for more information.
1. Complete the fields for your publishing type.
  
  When **Tag** is enabled:
      
   - In the **Module Tag Prefix** field, specify a Git tag prefix. The registry uses the prefix and a release version as a unique identifier when sourcing code for multiple modules in a single repository. Refer to [Requirements](#requirements) for more information about setting up tags.  
   - In the **Source Directory** field, specify the path to the module source code.

  When **Branch** is enabled:

   - In the **Branch Name** field, specify the name of the branch to scan for the module code.
   - In the **Module Version** field, specify the version of the module.
   - In the **Source Directory** field, specify the path to the module source code.

1. Click **Next** to advance to the **Confirm selection** screen.

> 1. In the **Module Name** field, specify a name for the module. This is the name that appears in the registry. HCP Terraform and Terraform Enterprise use the name in the module address. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the **Module Name** field, specify a name for the module. This is the name that appears in the registry. HCP Terraform and Terraform Enterprise use the module name in the module address. 
```

Just felt a little hard to scan the other way.

> 1. In the **Provider Name** field, specify the name of the provider that integrates the module. HCP Terraform and Terraform Enterprise use the name in the module address.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the **Provider Name** field, specify the name of the main provider the module uses to manage infrastructure. HCP Terraform and Terraform Enterprise use the name in the module address.  
```

Matching the wording above.

> 1. It is optional, but if this module is a [no-code ready module](/terraform/cloud-docs/no-code-provisioning/module-design), enable the **Add Module to no-code provision allowlist** option to allow your organization members to provision resources defined by this module using the no-code workflow. Refer to [Provision no-code infrastructure](/terraform/cloud-docs/no-code-provisioning/provisioning) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If this module is a [no-code ready module](/terraform/cloud-docs/no-code-provisioning/module-design), enable the **Add Module to no-code provision allowlist** option to allow your organization members to provision resources defined by this module using the no-code workflow. Refer to [Provision no-code infrastructure](/terraform/cloud-docs/no-code-provisioning/provisioning) for more information.
```

I think "if" implies that this is optional.

<!-- BEGIN: TFC:only name:pnp-callout -->
@include 'tfc-package-callouts/nocode.mdx'
<!-- END: TFC:only name:pnp-callout -->

1. Click **Publish module**.

> HCP Terraform and Terraform Enterprise displays a loading page while it imports the module versions and then directs you to the new module's details page. On the details page, you can view available versions, read documentation, and copy a usage example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise displays a loading page while it imports the module versions and then directs you to the new module's details page. On the details page, you can view available versions, read documentation, and copy a usage example.
```

Ugh, still kind of awkward, open to other ideas.

### Tag-based publishing considerations

To enable the **Tag** module publishing type, your registry must use the `x.y.z` format for release tags to identify module versions. Your repository must contain at least one release tag for you to publish a module. Release tag names must be a [semantic version](http://semver.org), which you can optionally prefix with a `v`. For example, `v1.0.4` and `0.9.2`. The registry ignores tags that do not match these formats.

> To publish modules from a single repository, you should also include a tag prefix so that HCP Terraform can publish individual modules in the repository when you create new version tags. Refer to [Release tag prefixes](#release-tag-prefixes) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To publish modules from a single repository, you should also include a tag prefix so that HCP Terraform can publish individual modules in the repository when you create new version tags. Refer to [Release tag prefixes](#release-tag-prefixes) for more information.
```

"should" or "must"?

### Branch-based publishing considerations

> To enable the **Branch** module publishing type, you must provide the name of an existing branch in your VCS repository and provide the module with a module version. Your VCS repository does not need to contain a matching tag or release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the **Branch** module publishing type, you must provide the name of an existing branch in your VCS repository and configure the module with a version in HCP Terraform. Your VCS repository does not need to contain a matching tag or release branch.
```

I think this is corrector?

You can only enable testing on modules published using branch-based publishing. Refer to the [test-integrated modules](/terraform/cloud-docs/registry/test) documentation for more information.

> Module testing is disabled when the **Publish modules to your private registry from a single repository** option is enabled in your workspace's general settings. Refer to [Enable publishing from a single repository](#enable-publishing-from-a-single-repository) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Module testing is disabled when the **Publish modules to your private registry from a single repository** option is enabled in your organization's settings. Refer to [Enable publishing from a single repository](#enable-publishing-from-a-single-repository) for more information.
```

It's an org setting, right, not a workspace one?
